CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for considering contributing to **Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit**!
Contributions help me improve and maintain the quality of this project.
Whether you're fixing a bug, proposing new features, or improving documentation, your efforts are greatly appreciated.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the Repository**:

   Click the "Fork" button on the top-right corner of the repository page to create your copy.

2. **Clone Your Fork**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<YOUR_USERNAME>/markdown-docs-kit.git
   cd markdown-docs-kit
   ```

3. **Set Up Upstream Remote**:
   To keep your fork up-to-date with the original repository:

   ```bash
   git remote add upstream https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit.git
   ```

4. **Install Dependencies** (if applicable):
   Follow the setup instructions in the [`README.md`][README].

## Branching and Versioning

This project employs a trunk-based strategy with **Semantic Release** for automated versioning and changelog generation.

### Branching Strategy

Branch names should follow these conventions:

- **Feature branches:** `feature/<short-description>` (e.g., `feature/add-login`)
- **Bugfix branches:** `bugfix/<short-description>` (e.g., `bugfix/fix-auth-error`)
- **Pre-release branches:** Use `next`, `beta`, or `alpha` (optional)
- **Main branch:** `main`

### Versioning Strategy

This project adheres to **Semantic Versioning (SemVer)** in the format **`MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`**:

- **MAJOR:** For large breaking changes that significantly alter the project's behavior or structure.
- **MINOR:** For new, backward-compatible features.
- **PATCH:** For backward-compatible bug fixes.

Semantic Release automatically manages versioning based on commit messages.

### Merging Guidelines

- **Rebase (Preferred):**
  Use GitHub’s **Rebase and Merge** option to maintain a clean, linear commit history.
- **Merge (Exceptions):**
  Use the regular merge option for larger branches with multiple contributors
  when preserving individual commits is necessary.
- **Squash:**
  Generally discouraged as it loses individual commit details. If used,
  ensure the pull request title follows the Conventional Commits format.

### Pull Request Guidelines

For detailed pull request guidelines, see [Proposing Changes][PROPOSING_CHANGES].

## Commit Message Conventions

Use the following template for commit messages. It aligns with best practices and the Conventional Commits standard,
providing essential details about changes.

### Template Structure

```plaintext
<type>(<scope>): <description>

<detailed description>

[FILES ADDED]
 - <list of newly added files>

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - <list of updated files>

[FILES REMOVED]
 - <list of removed files>

[DEPENDENCIES ADDED]
 - <list of newly added dependencies>

[DEPENDENCIES UPDATED]
 - <list of updated dependencies>

[DEPENDENCIES REMOVED]
 - <list of removed dependencies>

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - <list of new features, updates, or changes>

[TECHNIQUES]
 - <details about methods, tools, or approaches used>

[PURPOSE]
 - <reason for the change or issue being addressed>

[IMPACT]
 - <impact on the project, users, or performance>

[FIXES/CLOSES/RESOLVES]
 - #<list of related issue numbers>

[REFERENCES]
 - <links to documentation, code reviews, or other resources>
```

### Handling Breaking Changes

- **Header Notation:**
  To denote a breaking change, append a `!` to the `<type>` in the commit header. For example, use `feat!:` or `fix!:`.

- **Commit Body:**
  In the commit body (within the `<detailed description>`), include a separate line starting with:

  ```plaintext
  BREAKING CHANGE: <description of breaking changes and necessary adaptations>
  ```

  This line should provide details about the breaking change and any required user adaptations.

### Template Fields

- **`<type>`:** Specifies the type of change. Common types include:
  - `init`: Initial commit.
  - `feat`: A new feature.
  - `fix`: A bug fix.
  - `security`: Security-related changes (e.g., vulnerability fixes, input validation improvements).
  - `deps`: Updates to project dependencies.
  - `docs`: Documentation changes.
  - `style`: Code formatting or styling adjustments that do not affect functionality.
  - `refactor`: Code restructuring without altering functionality.
  - `perf`: Performance improvements.
  - `test`: Adding or updating tests.
  - `chore`: Maintenance tasks such as updating dependencies or build processes.
- **`<scope>`:** _(Optional)_ Specifies the part of the codebase affected.
- **`<description>`:** A concise, imperative summary of the change.
- **`<detailed description>`:** _(Optional)_ A comprehensive explanation of the change.
- **`[FILES ADDED/MODIFIED/REMOVED]`:** Lists the files affected by the commit.
- **`[DEPENDENCIES ADDED/UPDATED/REMOVED]`:** _(if applicable)_ Details any changes to project dependencies.
- **`[FEATURES/CHANGES]`:** Describes new features, updates, or significant changes.
- **`[TECHNIQUES]`:** _(Optional)_ Describes methods, tools, or approaches used.
- **`[PURPOSE]`:** Explains the rationale behind the change.
- **`[IMPACT]`:** Describes the impact on the project, users, or performance.
- **`[FIXES/CLOSES/RESOLVES]`:** _(if applicable)_ References related issues or tasks (e.g., `#123`).
- **`[REFERENCES]`:** _(if applicable)_ Links to documentation, code reviews, or other resources.

### Example Commit Message

```plaintext
feat(auth): add OAuth2 login support

Implemented OAuth2 login functionality, allowing users to authenticate with Google and GitHub.

[FILES ADDED]
 - src/auth/oauth2.js
 - src/auth/oauth2.test.js

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - src/auth/index.js

[DEPENDENCIES ADDED]
 - google-auth-library
 - @octokit/auth

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - Added OAuth2 authentication for Google and GitHub.
 - Improved error handling for authentication flows.

[PURPOSE]
 - Enhance security and provide seamless third-party login support.

[IMPACT]
 - Simplifies user authentication and improves overall security.

[FIXES]
 - #123

[REFERENCES]
 - OAuth2 Documentation: https://example.com/oauth2
```

### Example Commit Message with Breaking Change

```plaintext
feat!(auth): overhaul login API for enhanced security

Refactored the authentication system to adopt a more secure and modern approach.
This change deprecates the old login endpoints and introduces a new OAuth2-based mechanism.

BREAKING CHANGE: The previous login endpoints have been removed. Clients must update their integrations
to use the new OAuth2 endpoints as described in the migration guide.

[FILES ADDED]
 - src/auth/oauth2_new.js
 - docs/migration-guide.md

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - src/auth/index.js
 - src/auth/login.js

[DEPENDENCIES ADDED]
 - new-auth-library

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - Transitioned to OAuth2 for authentication.
 - Enhanced token management and session handling.

[PURPOSE]
 - Improve overall security and modernize the authentication flow.

[IMPACT]
 - Breaking change: Requires client updates to use the new endpoints.

[FIXES]
 - #124

[REFERENCES]
 - Migration Guide: https://example.com/migration-guide
```

## Dependency and Build Management

### Dependency Handling

The project inherits dependency management from the parent [**markdown-workspace**][jekwwer-markdown-workspace]
and may be synced fully or partially with the parent template as needed.

- **NPM Dependencies:**
  Managed via `package.json` and `package-lock.json`.

- **Dependabot:**
  The `.github/dependabot.yml` file monitors and updates dependencies for npm packages and GitHub Actions.

### Build Scripts

- There are no build scripts for the templates.
- External documentation build commands are defined in `package.json`:
  - `"docs:serve": "mkdocs serve"`: Serve documentation locally.
  - `"docs:build": "mkdocs build"`: Build the documentation.
  - `"docs:deploy": "mkdocs gh-deploy"`: Deploy documentation (restricted to maintainers).

### Environment Configuration

- The environment is primarily configured using `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` for container setup,
  along with VSCode settings and customizations.

## Testing and Quality Assurance

This repository does not include automated tests since its primary deliverables are Markdown document templates.
Quality is maintained through manual reviews and adherence to established style guidelines and linting tools.

## Proposing Changes

1. **Check for Existing Issues**:
   Before opening a new issue or pull request, see if it’s already discussed in
   [Issues][issues] or [Discussions][discussions].

2. **Create a Branch**:

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

3. **Make and Test Changes**:
   Keep changes consistent with the repository's [`STYLEGUIDE.md`][STYLEGUIDE].

4. **Commit**:

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit
   ```

5. **Push Your Branch**:

   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

6. **Open a Pull Request**:
   - Go to the original repository.
   - Click “Compare & pull request.”
   - Fill out the PR template, referencing relevant issues or discussions.

## Code of Conduct

By contributing, you agree to adhere to the [Code of Conduct][CODE_OF_CONDUCT].
Please read it to understand the expectations for behavior.

## Thank You

Your contributions make **Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit** better.
I value your time and effort—thank you for contributing!

---

This document is based on a template by [Evgenii Shiliaev][evgenii-shiliaev-github], licensed under [CC BY 4.0][jekwwer-markdown-docs-kit-license].
All additional content is licensed under [MIT][MIT_LICENSE].

[CODE_OF_CONDUCT]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[MIT_LICENSE]: MIT-LICENSE
[PROPOSING_CHANGES]: #proposing-changes
[README]: README.md
[STYLEGUIDE]: STYLEGUIDE.md
[discussions]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/discussions
[issues]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/issues
[evgenii-shiliaev-github]: https://github.com/Jekwwer
[jekwwer-markdown-docs-kit-license]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/blob/main/LICENSE
[jekwwer-markdown-workspace]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-workspace

Commit message:

feat(CONTRIBUTING.md): add manual and automated testing scripts section
Added scripts section to CONTRIBUTING.md for manual and automated testing, providing detailed descriptions for each testing script.

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - CONTRIBUTING.md

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - Included information on manual testing scripts such as check:links, check:spelling, and others.
 - Detailed automated testing processes using pre-commit hooks and in-editor autoformatting settings.

[PURPOSE]
 - Aligning testing documentation with project practices and simplifying contributor onboarding.

[IMPACT]
 - Enhances documentation clarity, onboarding experience, and enforces consistent code quality standards.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for considering contributing to **Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit**!
Contributions help me improve and maintain the quality of this project.
Whether you're fixing a bug, proposing new features, or improving documentation, your efforts are greatly appreciated.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the Repository**:

   Click the "Fork" button on the top-right corner of the repository page to create your copy.

2. **Clone Your Fork**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<YOUR_USERNAME>/markdown-docs-kit.git
   cd markdown-docs-kit
   ```

3. **Set Up Upstream Remote**:
   To keep your fork up-to-date with the original repository:

   ```bash
   git remote add upstream https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit.git
   ```

4. **Install Dependencies** (if applicable):
   Follow the setup instructions in the [`README.md`][README].

## Branching and Versioning

This project employs a trunk-based strategy with **Semantic Release** for automated versioning and changelog generation.

### Branching Strategy

Branch names should follow these conventions:

- **Feature branches:** `feature/<short-description>` (e.g., `feature/add-login`)
- **Bugfix branches:** `bugfix/<short-description>` (e.g., `bugfix/fix-auth-error`)
- **Pre-release branches:** Use `next`, `beta`, or `alpha` (optional)
- **Main branch:** `main`

### Versioning Strategy

This project adheres to **Semantic Versioning (SemVer)** in the format **`MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`**:

- **MAJOR:** For large breaking changes that significantly alter the project's behavior or structure.
- **MINOR:** For new, backward-compatible features.
- **PATCH:** For backward-compatible bug fixes.

Semantic Release automatically manages versioning based on commit messages.

### Merging Guidelines

- **Rebase (Preferred):**
  Use GitHub’s **Rebase and Merge** option to maintain a clean, linear commit history.
- **Merge (Exceptions):**
  Use the regular merge option for larger branches with multiple contributors
  when preserving individual commits is necessary.
- **Squash:**
  Generally discouraged as it loses individual commit details. If used,
  ensure the pull request title follows the Conventional Commits format.

### Pull Request Guidelines

For detailed pull request guidelines, see [Proposing Changes][PROPOSING_CHANGES].

## Commit Message Conventions

Use the following template for commit messages. It aligns with best practices and the Conventional Commits standard,
providing essential details about changes.

### Template Structure

```plaintext
<type>(<scope>): <description>

<detailed description>

[FILES ADDED]
 - <list of newly added files>

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - <list of updated files>

[FILES REMOVED]
 - <list of removed files>

[DEPENDENCIES ADDED]
 - <list of newly added dependencies>

[DEPENDENCIES UPDATED]
 - <list of updated dependencies>

[DEPENDENCIES REMOVED]
 - <list of removed dependencies>

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - <list of new features, updates, or changes>

[TECHNIQUES]
 - <details about methods, tools, or approaches used>

[PURPOSE]
 - <reason for the change or issue being addressed>

[IMPACT]
 - <impact on the project, users, or performance>

[FIXES/CLOSES/RESOLVES]
 - #<list of related issue numbers>

[REFERENCES]
 - <links to documentation, code reviews, or other resources>
```

### Handling Breaking Changes

- **Header Notation:**
  To denote a breaking change, append a `!` to the `<type>` in the commit header. For example, use `feat!:` or `fix!:`.

- **Commit Body:**
  In the commit body (within the `<detailed description>`), include a separate line starting with:

  ```plaintext
  BREAKING CHANGE: <description of breaking changes and necessary adaptations>
  ```

  This line should provide details about the breaking change and any required user adaptations.

### Template Fields

- **`<type>`:** Specifies the type of change. Common types include:
  - `init`: Initial commit.
  - `feat`: A new feature.
  - `fix`: A bug fix.
  - `security`: Security-related changes (e.g., vulnerability fixes, input validation improvements).
  - `deps`: Updates to project dependencies.
  - `docs`: Documentation changes.
  - `style`: Code formatting or styling adjustments that do not affect functionality.
  - `refactor`: Code restructuring without altering functionality.
  - `perf`: Performance improvements.
  - `test`: Adding or updating tests.
  - `chore`: Maintenance tasks such as updating dependencies or build processes.
- **`<scope>`:** _(Optional)_ Specifies the part of the codebase affected.
- **`<description>`:** A concise, imperative summary of the change.
- **`<detailed description>`:** _(Optional)_ A comprehensive explanation of the change.
- **`[FILES ADDED/MODIFIED/REMOVED]`:** Lists the files affected by the commit.
- **`[DEPENDENCIES ADDED/UPDATED/REMOVED]`:** _(if applicable)_ Details any changes to project dependencies.
- **`[FEATURES/CHANGES]`:** Describes new features, updates, or significant changes.
- **`[TECHNIQUES]`:** _(Optional)_ Describes methods, tools, or approaches used.
- **`[PURPOSE]`:** Explains the rationale behind the change.
- **`[IMPACT]`:** Describes the impact on the project, users, or performance.
- **`[FIXES/CLOSES/RESOLVES]`:** _(if applicable)_ References related issues or tasks (e.g., `#123`).
- **`[REFERENCES]`:** _(if applicable)_ Links to documentation, code reviews, or other resources.

### Example Commit Message

```plaintext
feat(auth): add OAuth2 login support

Implemented OAuth2 login functionality, allowing users to authenticate with Google and GitHub.

[FILES ADDED]
 - src/auth/oauth2.js
 - src/auth/oauth2.test.js

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - src/auth/index.js

[DEPENDENCIES ADDED]
 - google-auth-library
 - @octokit/auth

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - Added OAuth2 authentication for Google and GitHub.
 - Improved error handling for authentication flows.

[PURPOSE]
 - Enhance security and provide seamless third-party login support.

[IMPACT]
 - Simplifies user authentication and improves overall security.

[FIXES]
 - #123

[REFERENCES]
 - OAuth2 Documentation: https://example.com/oauth2
```

### Example Commit Message with Breaking Change

```plaintext
feat!(auth): overhaul login API for enhanced security

Refactored the authentication system to adopt a more secure and modern approach.
This change deprecates the old login endpoints and introduces a new OAuth2-based mechanism.

BREAKING CHANGE: The previous login endpoints have been removed. Clients must update their integrations
to use the new OAuth2 endpoints as described in the migration guide.

[FILES ADDED]
 - src/auth/oauth2_new.js
 - docs/migration-guide.md

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - src/auth/index.js
 - src/auth/login.js

[DEPENDENCIES ADDED]
 - new-auth-library

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - Transitioned to OAuth2 for authentication.
 - Enhanced token management and session handling.

[PURPOSE]
 - Improve overall security and modernize the authentication flow.

[IMPACT]
 - Breaking change: Requires client updates to use the new endpoints.

[FIXES]
 - #124

[REFERENCES]
 - Migration Guide: https://example.com/migration-guide
```

## Dependency and Build Management

### Dependency Handling

The project inherits dependency management from the parent [**markdown-workspace**][jekwwer-markdown-workspace]
and may be synced fully or partially with the parent template as needed.

- **NPM Dependencies:**
  Managed via `package.json` and `package-lock.json`.

- **Dependabot:**
  The `.github/dependabot.yml` file monitors and updates dependencies for npm packages and GitHub Actions.

### Build Scripts

- There are no build scripts for the templates.
- External documentation build commands are defined in `package.json`:
  - `"docs:serve": "mkdocs serve"`: Serve documentation locally.
  - `"docs:build": "mkdocs build"`: Build the documentation.
  - `"docs:deploy": "mkdocs gh-deploy"`: Deploy documentation (restricted to maintainers).

### Environment Configuration

- The environment is primarily configured using `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` for container setup,
  along with VSCode settings and customizations.

## Testing and Quality Assurance

This project uses a combination of manual and automated testing approaches inherited from the parent [**markdown-workspace**][jekwwer-markdown-workspace].
For more details on the testing framework and automated processes, refer to the parent documentation.

### Manual Testing

Run the following scripts (see `package.json` for details) to verify code quality:

- **check:links**: Scans Markdown files for broken URLs.
- **check:spelling**: Checks files for typos.
- **format:check**: Verifies code formatting.
- **format:code**: Auto-formats files.
- **generate:toc**: Generates a Table of Contents at each `[[toc]]` placeholder.
- **lint:markdown**: Lints Markdown files.
- **docs:serve**: Serves the documentation locally.
- **docs:build**: Builds a static site from the Markdown documentation.
- **docs:deploy**: Deploys the built documentation to GitHub Pages.

### Automated Testing

Automated checks run via pre-commit hooks in both CI and locally:

- They enforce linting and formatting standards before commits.
- In-editor autoformatting is active through VSCode settings in `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json`
  (`formatOnPaste` & `formatOnSave`).

## Proposing Changes

1. **Check for Existing Issues**:
   Before opening a new issue or pull request, see if it’s already discussed in
   [Issues][issues] or [Discussions][discussions].

2. **Create a Branch**:

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

3. **Make and Test Changes**:
   Keep changes consistent with the repository's [`STYLEGUIDE.md`][STYLEGUIDE].

4. **Commit**:

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit
   ```

5. **Push Your Branch**:

   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

6. **Open a Pull Request**:
   - Go to the original repository.
   - Click “Compare & pull request.”
   - Fill out the PR template, referencing relevant issues or discussions.

## Code of Conduct

By contributing, you agree to adhere to the [Code of Conduct][CODE_OF_CONDUCT].
Please read it to understand the expectations for behavior.

## Thank You

Your contributions make **Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit** better.
I value your time and effort—thank you for contributing!

---

This document is based on a template by [Evgenii Shiliaev][evgenii-shiliaev-github], licensed under [CC BY 4.0][jekwwer-markdown-docs-kit-license].
All additional content is licensed under [MIT][MIT_LICENSE].

[CODE_OF_CONDUCT]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[MIT_LICENSE]: MIT-LICENSE
[PROPOSING_CHANGES]: #proposing-changes
[README]: README.md
[STYLEGUIDE]: STYLEGUIDE.md
[discussions]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/discussions
[issues]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/issues
[evgenii-shiliaev-github]: https://github.com/Jekwwer
[jekwwer-markdown-docs-kit-license]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/blob/main/LICENSE
[jekwwer-markdown-workspace]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-workspace
