README.md, before:

# Markdown Docs Kit

![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?logo=github&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Freleases%2Flatest)
![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Freleases%2Flatest)
![GitHub commits since latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/latest?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Freleases%2Flatest)
![Libraries.io dependency status for GitHub repo](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/github/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?logo=librariesdotio&logoColor=%23FFFFFF)
![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?logo=github&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Fissues)
![Maintained](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2025)
![License: CC BY 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-blue.svg)

## Project Overview 🚀

This repository contains common documentation files that can be reused across multiple projects
to maintain consistency and streamline the setup process.

### Current Contents

- `.github/FUNDING.yml`: Information on funding options and sponsorship links.
- `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`: Default pull request template for general contributions.
- `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/*`: Templates for specific pull requests, such as `bugfix`, `docs`, and `feature`.
- `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/*`: Templates for reporting bugs, requesting features, and asking questions.
- `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`: Standards for behavior within the community.
- `CONTRIBUTING.md`: Guidelines on how to contribute to the project.
- `README.md`: A general template for project README, outlining setup instructions, usage,
  and contribution guidelines.
- `SCHOOL_PROJECT_README.md`: A specialized README template for educational or school-related projects.
- `SECURITY.md`: Guidelines for securely reporting vulnerabilities and related contact details.

## License 🛡️

This repository is licensed under **Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0)**
for the Markdown templates located in the [`templates/`][templates-dir] directory.
You **must** provide attribution when using them (see [LICENSE][LICENSE]).

The development environment (scripts, configuration, and tooling) is based on
[markdown-workspace][markdown-workspace] and is licensed under **MIT** (see [MIT-LICENSE][MIT-LICENSE]).

## Usage 🛠️

Clone the repository and copy the required documentation files:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit.git
```

Then customize the necessary files for your project.

## Contact 📬

For questions, reach out via [evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com][evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com] or open an [issue][issues].

---

### Notes

This repository is synchronized with the [Markdown Workspace][markdown-workspace],
currently at version [v1.6.0][markdown-workspace-v1.6.0].
The repository serves as a development foundation for working on markdown documentation effectively.

---

This document is based on a template by [Evgenii Shiliaev][evgenii-shiliaev-github], licensed under [CC BY 4.0][markdown-docs-kit-license].
All additional content is licensed under [MIT][MIT-LICENSE].

[LICENSE]: LICENSE
[MIT-LICENSE]: MIT-LICENSE
[markdown-docs-kit-license]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/blob/main/LICENSE
[templates-dir]: templates/
[evgenii-shiliaev-github]: https://github.com/Jekwwer
[evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com]: mailto:evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com
[issues]: https://github.com/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/issues
[markdown-workspace]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-workspace
[markdown-workspace-v1.6.0]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-workspace/tree/v1.6.0

Commit message:

feat(styleguide): add STYLEGUIDE.md and update related documentation
[FILES ADDED]
 - STYLEGUIDE.md
 - templates/STYLEGUIDE.md

[FILES MODIFIED]
 - docs/index.md
 - cspell.json
 - README.md

[FEATURES/CHANGES]
 - Introduced STYLEGUIDE.md template to provide a starting point for new style guide documents.
 - Introduced STYLEGUIDE.md to outline coding conventions and documentation practices.
 - Updated README and docs/index.md to include references to STYLEGUIDE.md.
 - Updated cspell.json to include 'releaserc' from STYLEGUIDE.md.

[PURPOSE]
 - To provide a consistent and comprehensive style guide for the project.
 - To improve a template for style guide documents.

[IMPACT]
 - The STYLEGUIDE.md template will be used as a reference for all new style guide documents.
 - Any further changes in the project must adhere to the guidelines outlined in STYLEGUIDE.md.

README.md, after:

# Markdown Docs Kit

![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?logo=github&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Freleases%2Flatest)
![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Freleases%2Flatest)
![GitHub commits since latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/latest?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Freleases%2Flatest)
![Libraries.io dependency status for GitHub repo](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/github/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?logo=librariesdotio&logoColor=%23FFFFFF)
![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit?logo=github&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FJekwwer%2Fmarkdown-docs-kit%2Fissues)
![Maintained](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2025)
![License: CC BY 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-blue.svg)

## Project Overview 🚀

This repository contains common documentation files that can be reused across multiple projects
to maintain consistency and streamline the setup process.

### Current Contents

- `.github/FUNDING.yml`: Information on funding options and sponsorship links.
- `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`: Default pull request template for general contributions.
- `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/*`: Templates for specific pull requests, such as `bugfix`, `docs`, and `feature`.
- `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/*`: Templates for reporting bugs, requesting features, and asking questions.
- `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`: Standards for behavior within the community.
- `CONTRIBUTING.md`: Guidelines on how to contribute to the project.
- `README.md`: A general template for project README, outlining setup instructions, usage,
  and contribution guidelines.
- `SCHOOL_PROJECT_README.md`: A specialized README template for educational or school-related projects.
- `SECURITY.md`: Guidelines for securely reporting vulnerabilities and related contact details.
- `STYLEGUIDE.md`: Coding and documentation conventions for consistency and maintainability.

## License 🛡️

This repository is licensed under **Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0)**
for the Markdown templates located in the [`templates/`][templates-dir] directory.
You **must** provide attribution when using them (see [LICENSE][LICENSE]).

The development environment (scripts, configuration, and tooling) is based on
[markdown-workspace][markdown-workspace] and is licensed under **MIT** (see [MIT-LICENSE][MIT-LICENSE]).

## Usage 🛠️

Clone the repository and copy the required documentation files:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit.git
```

Then customize the necessary files for your project.

## Contact 📬

For questions, reach out via [evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com][evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com] or open an [issue][issues].

---

### Notes

This repository is synchronized with the [Markdown Workspace][markdown-workspace],
currently at version [v1.6.0][markdown-workspace-v1.6.0].
The repository serves as a development foundation for working on markdown documentation effectively.

---

This document is based on a template by [Evgenii Shiliaev][evgenii-shiliaev-github], licensed under [CC BY 4.0][markdown-docs-kit-license].
All additional content is licensed under [MIT][MIT-LICENSE].

[LICENSE]: LICENSE
[MIT-LICENSE]: MIT-LICENSE
[markdown-docs-kit-license]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/blob/main/LICENSE
[templates-dir]: templates/
[evgenii-shiliaev-github]: https://github.com/Jekwwer
[evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com]: mailto:evgenii.shiliaev@jekwwer.com
[issues]: https://github.com/jekwwer/markdown-docs-kit/issues
[markdown-workspace]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-workspace
[markdown-workspace-v1.6.0]: https://github.com/Jekwwer/markdown-workspace/tree/v1.6.0
